Syscoin - A Scrypt-based, Merge-minable Coin with Key-Value, Datastore, and Distributed Market Services

Syscoin is scrypt-based, merge-minable with any Scrypt coin, and was designed with a strong focus on providing a range of useful distributed services using bitcoin blockchain technology.  While Syscoin can certainly be used as currency (since syscoin's core services, and services built atop them), Syscoin's power lies in its leverage of the blockchain to provide a varity of useful services, as well as its leverage of existing (and rapidly growing) Scrypt hashing power, via its ability to be merge-mined with any scrypt coin.   Syscoin's existing service offerings include: 

1. Alias (key-value) reservation and ownership. Much like namecoin, syscoin provides for registration, storage, and provable ownership of namespaced key-value pairs. All of the use cases which apply to namecoin apply to Syscoin, including: domain name reservation and online identity management and a host of possible ad-hoc uses such as message-passing, proofs-of-ownership, date or event occurence certification, and many more. The same storage limits which apply to namecoin, also apply to Syscoin: a max keysize of 255 chars, and a max value size of 1kB. 

2. Data (key-bigvalue) reservation and ownership. Syscoin provides for registration, storage, and provable ownership of namespaced key-value pairs with large-size (up to 256kB) blocks of data. This functionality enables a host of use cases, including certificate storage and validation, proof-of-ownership of digital documents of all kinds (digital pink slips), digital content license storage and distribution, and many other uses. 

3. Raw data storage on the blockchain. While not 'provably ownable' like Syscoin alias, data, or offer transactions, arbitrary amounts of data (semgented into 256kB chunks per transaction) can be stored on the Syscoin blockchain. Also, unlike Alias, Data or Offer services, raw data storage services are ephemeral on the blockchain; all data stored is neither retransmitted nor locally held past a period of time equalling about one month from date of storage. 

3. A distributed online marketplace.  Perhaps Syscoin's most innovative and useful existing service, Offers give Syscoin users the ability to buy and sell goods and services online. Syscoin provides for a simple but powerful cores set of features which enable anyone to create an 'Offer' which advertises the availability of an item or service online. Offers may be browsed and reviewed, and then 'Accepted' to claim the right to purchase the offered item. Offer Accepts can then be paid for, which automatically initiates a Syscoin transfer to the seller, as well as provide them with a purchase message from the buyer. Syscoin Offer accepts can also be transferred amongst syscoin users, enabling secondary markets providing trade of accepted but as-yet-unpaid for offer accepts.  Offers may also be replenished in quantity, thus enabling the age, offer accept history, and even potentially the feedback text embedded as convention when paying for transactions to all act as elements to determine and track the trustworthiness of invividual sellers.  This functionality, embedded at the core of Syscoin, provides for the creation of a variety of markets, including physical goods markets, services markets, financial instrument markets, and others. The design philosophy behind Syscoin's offer services was to provide for a simple, yet powerful set of tools which enable, as core functionality, the ability to create a multitude of marketplaces which are value-added by providers via extended user interfaces and services, all while retaining the power and anonymous nature of bitcoin technology. Thus, a variety of marketplaces can potentially be created, ranging from unsophisticated anonymous online markets to sophisticated, value-added, insured and bonded online marketplaces enabling the sale of financial instruments, retail goods, and any other item. 

Since Syscoin is, at it's heart, a service-oriented coin with a large to load, large to store blockchain, heavy emphasis is placed on paying out services fees to miners, since they enable the existence of syscoin and its services.  Unlike namecoin, which destroys all namecoins consumed when registering or updating names, Syscoin directly recycles transaction fees by regenerating them as subsidies and adding them to mining payouts. 

The regeneration of service fees is, other than base mining rewards,  the key incentive for miners to continue to mine Syscoin (with Syscoin's merge-minable nature being the incentive and low-cost entry which incentivises miners to mine Syscoin in the first place). 

Syscoin uses KGW to retarget difficulty, but unlike most KGW implementations, Syscoin uses extremely small min and max values as algorithmic inputs, which effectively allows for Syscoin's difficulty to retarget much more rapidly and effectively than other coins using KGW. Consideration was given to a range of other difficulty adjustment algorithms, but none have proven themselves to be sufficiently improved from Syscoin's KGW implementation to warrant replacement. 

Coin specs: 

1 minute block times. 268,824,600 coin cap. Block Reward starts at 1024 SYS (+ regenerated service fees), decays by 50% every 131,400 blocks until block 1,314,000 (thus decvaying by 50% a total of ten times), whereupon rewards will then consist of Syscoin service and network fees.

Syscoin service fee regeneration is accomplished by tracking all service fees charged by the Syscoin network via two moving average windows - a 12-hour window and 1-hour window. Whichever moving average is the greatest is chosen as the amount to be regenerated, which is then added to the block reward. Thus, while the regeneration of Syscoin service fees does not exactly equal the amount of Syscoin destroyed when utilizing Syscoin services, the methodology of using the most optimistic of two moving average windows enables 'good enough' tracking of service fees to effectively and fairly redistribute coins destroyed in service transactions back to miners.

We believe 